============================
Publishing the Documentation
============================

In this section you will publish your documentation on a public website hosted
by GitHub Pages.

This section assume you have already set up Travis-CI, as we covered in a
previous section, :doc:`ci`.

Configure Doctr
---------------

We recommend `doctr <https://drdoctr.github.io>`_ a tool that configures
Travis-CI to automatically publish your documentation every time the master
branch is updated.

.. warning::
    The repo you want to build the docs for has to be a root repo.
    You cannot build docs for a forked repo by doctr yet.
    The doctr team is working on enabling a forked repo build under
    `PR #343 <https://github.com/drdoctr/doctr/pull/343>`_.

Install doctr.

   .. code-block:: bash

      python3 -m pip install --upgrade doctr

Just type ``doctr configure`` and follow the prompts. Example:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ doctr configure
    Welcome to Doctr.

    We need to ask you a few questions to get you on your way to automatically
    deploying from Travis CI to GitHub pages.

    What is your GitHub username? YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME
    Enter the GitHub password for YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME:
    A two-factor authentication code is required: app
    Authentication code: XXXXXX
    What repo do you want to build the docs for (org/reponame, like 'drdoctr/doctr')? YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/YOUR_REPO_NAME
    What repo do you want to deploy the docs to? [YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/YOUR_REPO_NAME]

    The deploy key has been added for YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/YOUR_REPO_NAME.

    You can go to https://github.com/NSLS-II/NSLS-II.github.io/settings/keys to revoke the deploy key.

Then doctr shows some instructions, which we will take one at a time,
elaborating here.

.. code-block:: bash

    ================== You should now do the following ==================

    1. Add the file  github_deploy_key_your_github_username_your_repo_name.enc to be staged for commit:

        git add github_deploy_key_your_github_username_your_repo_name.enc

Remember that you can always use ``git status`` to list uncommitted files like
this one.

.. code-block:: bash

    2. Add these lines to your `.travis.yml` file:

        env:
          global:
            # Doctr deploy key for YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/YOUR_REPO_NAME
            - secure: "<REDACTED>"

        script:
        - set -e
        - <Command to build your docs>
        - pip install doctr
        - doctr deploy --built-docs <path/to/built/html/> <target-directory>

    Replace the text in <angle brackets> with the relevant
    things for your repository.

    Note: the `set -e` prevents doctr from running when the docs build fails.
    We put this code under `script:` so that if doctr fails it causes the
    build to fail.

This output includes an encrypted token --- the string next to ``secure:``
which I have redacted in the example above --- that gives Travis-CI permission
to upload to GitHub Pages.

Putting this together with the default ``.travis.yml`` file generated by the
cookiecutter template, you'll have something like:

.. literalinclude:: example_travis_with_doctr.yml
   :emphasize-lines: 11-14,27-30

where ``<REDACTED>`` is replaced by the output you got from ``doctr configure``
above.

.. code-block:: bash

    3. Commit and push these changes to your GitHub repository.
    The docs should now build automatically on Travis.

    See the documentation at https://drdoctr.github.io/ for more information.

Once the changes are pushed to the ``master`` branch on GitHub, Travis-CI will
publish the documentation to
``https://<YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME>.github.io/<YOUR_REPO_NAME>``. It may take a
minute for the updates to process.

Alternatives
------------

Another popular option for publishing documentation is
`https://readthedocs.org/ <https://readthedocs.org/>`_ . We slightly prefer
using Travis-CI + GitHub Pages because it is easier to debug any installation
issues. It is also more efficient: we have to build the documentation on
Travis-CI anyway to verify that any changes haven't broken them, so we might as
well upload the result and be done, rather than having readthedocs build them
again.
